docs/user-documentation/general-users/data-export.md, before:

Export
====
 
## Export to File




### Export Lab Notebooks & Inventory Spaces 

  
All levels of the *Lab Notebook* and *Inventory* can be exported, using
the **Export** option in the **More..** drop down, as shown below.  

**Space**

![image info](img/new-export-space-2.png)

**Project**

![image info](img/new-export-project-2.png)


**Experiment/Collection**

![image info](img/new-export-experiment-2.png)


**Object**

![image info](img/new-export-object-2.png)


**Dataset**

![image info](img/new-export-dataset-2.png)


In each case, the following export options are available: 

![image info](img/new-export-options.png)

 
- **Make import compatible**. If selected, datasets are exported in a **data** folder and are in a format ready to be uploaded in openBIS using the default eln-lims dropbox; the metadata are exported in a **xlsx** folder which contains information in a format ready to be uploaded via the openBIS admin UI.

- **Export metadata as PDF**. Metadata are exported in a **pdf** folder that keeps the folder structure of the ELN. At each level, one pdf file for each exported entity is generated.

- **Export metadata as XLSX**. Metadata are exported in one **xlsx** folder. The folder contains the metadata of all exported entities and the corresponding masterdata in a **metadata.xlsx** file. If **Make import compatible** is selected, this file is suitable for re-import in openBIS. If not, the file contains some fields which are not compatible with re-imports. These fields are: PermId of entities, registrator, registration date, modifier, modification date. In addition to the metadata.xlsx file, the **xlsx** folder might contain a **scripts** folder, which contains scripts associated with types in the metadata.xlsx file, if these are present, and a **data** folder which holds the content of spreadsheet fields and large text fields that exceed the size of an Excel cell.

- **Export data**. The default maximum size of all datasets to be exported is 10GB. This can be configured by a system admin in the [AS service.properties file](../../system-documentation/configuration/optional-application-server-configuration.md). We recommend to use [sftp](../general-users/lab-notebook.md#data-access) to download large datasets. 
If **Make import compatible** is selected, datasets are exported in a **data** folder in a format ready to be uploaded in openBIS using the default eln-lims dropbox. If not, the datasets are exported in a **pdf** folder that matches the ELN hierarchy.

- **Include levels below from same space**. If selected, all hierachy levels below the selected entity and belonging to the same Space are exported.

- **Include Object and Dataset parents from same space**. If selected, Object parents and Dataset parents from the same Space are exported. Example: I export Object A, in Experiment A, in Space 1. Object B in Experiment B also in Space 1 is parent of Object A. When this option is selected, Object B is also exported, otherwise it is not.

- **Include Objects and Datasets parents and children from different spaces**. This allows to export Object and Dataset parents and children that belong to a different Space than the Space from where Objects and Datasets are being exported. Example: I export Object A in Space 1, which has parents in Space 2. If this option is selected, the parents in Space 2 are also exported, otherwise they are not.

- **Wait for download to complete in browser**. This is suitable when exporting only metadata or small datasets. When the dowload is ready, a zip file will be available to download from the browser.

_Note: ensure that pop-ups are not disabled in your browser_.
- **Receive results by email**. If this option is selected, when the export is ready, you will receive an email notification with a download link.  Email notification needs to be configured on *system level* during or after installation, as explained in [Configure Data Store
Server](../../system-documentation/configuration/optional-datastore-server-configuration.md)

We provide below a couple of examples of the export, to clarify how it works.

### **1. Import-compatible export of a Space selecting all options**

We select all options from the export widget, as shown below.

 ![image info](img/space-export-all-options-import-compatible.png)

We export a Space called CATERINA in the Lab Notebook with all its sublevels (see below). 

![image info](img/export_example-lab-notebook.png)

One Object in this Space has a parent in a Space called METHODS (see below). 

![image info](img/export_example-inventory.png)

The exported zip file contains 3 folders:

**A.** **data** folder

This contains the datasets in the correct format to be uploaded via eln-lims dropbox, as shown below.


![image info](img/IC-data-folder-1.png)

![image info](img/IC-data-folder-2.png)

**B.** **pdf** folder

This contains folders that match the openBIS hierarchy (Space/Project/Experiment/Object).

In this case 2 Space folders are present:

1. **CATERINA**: is the exported space.
2. **METHODS**: contains an Object which is parent of an Object in the space CATERINA. This was exported because the option **Include Objects and Datasets parents and children from different spaces** was selected for export.

![image info](img/IC-pdf-folder-1.png)

![image info](img/IC-pdf-folder-2.png)


Inside each folder, there is a pdf of the corresponding entity. Example: 

- in the Space folder **CATERINA** there is a **CATERINA.pdf** file that contains the metadata of the Space;
- in the Project folder **PROJECT_1** there is a **PROJECT_1.pdf** file that contains the metadata of the Project;
- in the Experiment folder **My second experiment (PROJECT_1_EXP_1)** there is a **My second experiment (PROJECT_1_EXP_1).pdf** file with the metadata of the Experiment;
- in the Object folder **Step A (EXP4)**  there is a **Step A(EXP4).pdf** file with the metadata of the Object and a **20240523100301019-55.pdf** file that contains the metadata of the dataset that belongs to this Object.


**C.** **xlsx** folder. 

This contains:

- a **metadata.xlsx** file which has the metadata of the exported entities and the corresponding masterdata (types and properties) in the correct format to be re-imported in another openBIS instance;
- a **scripts** folder that contains evaluation plugins associated to two types defined in the metadata.xlsx file;
- a **data** folder that contains the information stored in the spreadsheet field of one of the Objects in this Space.

![image info](img/IC-xlsx-folder-data.png)

![image info](img/IC-xlsx-folder-scripts.png)



### **2. Non import-compatible export of a Space selecting all options**

We export the same Space as described in Example 1, with all options selected, but the export this time is not import-compatible, as shown below.

 ![image info](img/space-export-all-options-non-import-compatible.png)

 
In this case the exported zip file contains only 2 folders: **pdf** and **xlsx**. Data are exported inside the pdf folder, instead of being in a separate **data** folder.

**A.** **pdf** folder

This contains the same folder structure as described above. In addition, in this case, inside the Object **Step A (EXP4)** folder there is a **data** folder that contains the dataset belonging to this Object, as shown below. The metadata of the dataset is provided as a metadata.json file inside the data folder and as pdf file inside the Object folder (**Step A (EXP4)**).


![image info](img/NIC-pdf-folder.png)

**B.** **xlsx** folder 

This contains the same files and folders as described in Example 1 (see below). The only difference in this case is that the metadata.xlsx is not import-compatible. It contains some fields which are not compatible with openBIS re-import, as explained above.

![image info](img/NIC-xlsx-folder-data.png)

![image info](img/NIC-xlsx-folder-scripts.png)

 
## Export to Zenodo



  
openBIS provides an integration with the **Zenodo** data
repository ([https://zenodo.org/).](https://zenodo.org/)

  
This enables data direct data transfer from openBIS to Zenodo. First of
all the connection to Zenodo needs to be configured on *system level*
in the DSS service.properties (see [How to configure the openBIS
DSS)](../../system-documentation/standalone/optional-datastore-server-configuration.md)
If this is configured, a lab manager, who has admin rights for the
**Settings,** needs to enable it in the ELN, as explained in [Enable
Transfer to Data
Repositories](../general-admin-users/admins-documentation/enable-transfer-to-data-repositories.md)**.**

###  Create Zenodo Personal Access Token

  
In order to be able to export data to Zenodo, you need a valid Zenodo
account. You also need to create a **personal access token.** This can
be done from the **Applications** under **Settings** in Zenodo, as shown
below:

![image info](img/generate-zenodo-token-1024x498.png)

### Save Zenodo Personal Access Token in openBIS

  
After creating the personal access token in Zenodo, this needs to be
stored in openBIS, with the following procedure:

1.  Go to **User Profile** under **Utilities** in the main menu.
2.  Enable editing.
3.  Add the personal access token from Zenodo.
4.  **Save.**

 

![image info](img/user-profile-session-token.png)


### Export data to Zenodo

  
To export data to Zenodo:

1.  Go to **Exports** -> **Export to Zenodo** under **Utilities** in
    the main menu.
2.  Select the data you want to export from the menu.
3.  Enter a **Submission** **Title.**
4.  Click **Export Selected** on top of the export form.
5.  The selected data are transferred as a zip file to Zenodo. You are
    now redirected to Zenodo, where you should fill in additional
    metadata information.
6.  Publish the entry in Zenodo.

 

![image info](img/export-to-zenodo-1024x862.png)

 
The data exported to Zenodo is a .zip file that contains the metadata of the exported entries in 4 formats (.txt, .html, .doc, .json) and the data. The hiearchy (i.e.folder structure) used in the ELN is preserved in the exported .zip file.
 

After you hit the **Publish** button in Zenodo, a new entry with the
details of this submission will be created in the **Publications**
folder in the **Inventory**. Please note that this may take a few
minutes.

 

![image info](img/publications-collection.png)


## Export data to Zenodo in a multi-group instance

If you export data from a multi-group instance where you have access to more than one group, you need to select the group under which the new publication entry should be created. 

In the example below we see 3 group names: GENERAL, DEMO, TEST.

![image info](img/export-to-zenodo-multigroup.png)

If you select GENERAL, the publication entry will be created under the PUBLICATION Space (if present).

If you select DEMO, the publication entry will be created under the DEMO_PUBLICATION Space. 

If you select TEST, the publication entry will be created under the TEST_PUBLICATION Space. 



 
## Export to ETH Research Collection



 

The [ETH Research Collection](https://www.research-collection.ethz.ch/)
is a FAIR repository for publications and research data provided by ETH
Zurich to its scientists.

 

Data can be uploaded to the ETH Research Collection **only by members of
ETH Zurich**. This export feature is only available to ETHZ members.

 

To export data to the ETH Research Collection:

![image info](img/export-to-research-collection-1024x818.png)

1.  Go to **Utilities** -> **Exports** -> **Export to Research
    Collection**.
2.  Select what to export from the tree.
3.  Select the **Submission Type** from the available list: *Data
    collection, Dataset, Image, Model, Sound, Video, Other Research
    Data*.
4.  Select the **Retention Period** that will be used in the ETH
    Research Collection: *10 years, 15 years, indefinite.* This is time
    for which the data will be preserved in the Research Collection.
5.  Click the **Export Selected** button on top of the page.
6.  The selected data are transferred as zip file to the ETH Research
    Collection. You will be redirected to the ETH Research Collection
    and will need to complete the submission process there.

 

![image info](img/publications-collection.png)


The data exported to the Research Collection is a .zip file that contains the metadata of the exported entries in 4 formats (.txt, .html, .doc, .json) and the data. The hiearchy (i.e.folder structure) used in the ELN is preserved in the exported .zip file.

A new entry with the details of this submission will be created in the
**Publications** folder in the **Inventory** after the submission
process in complete. This may take a few minutes.

 

The size limit for one single export to the ETH Research Collection is
10GB.

## Export data to the ETH Research Collection in a multi-group instance
 
If you export data from a multi-group instance where you have access to more than one group, you need to select the group under which the new publication entry should be created. See explanation in section **Export data to Zenodo in a multi-group instance** above.

Commit message:

add info on limitation for images embedded in text

docs/user-documentation/general-users/data-export.md, after:

Export
====
 
## Export to File




### Export Lab Notebooks & Inventory Spaces 

  
All levels of the *Lab Notebook* and *Inventory* can be exported, using
the **Export** option in the **More..** drop down, as shown below.  

**Space**

![image info](img/new-export-space-2.png)

**Project**

![image info](img/new-export-project-2.png)


**Experiment/Collection**

![image info](img/new-export-experiment-2.png)


**Object**

![image info](img/new-export-object-2.png)


**Dataset**

![image info](img/new-export-dataset-2.png)


In each case, the following export options are available: 

![image info](img/new-export-options.png)

 
- **Make import compatible**. If selected, datasets are exported in a **data** folder and are in a format ready to be uploaded in openBIS using the default eln-lims dropbox; the metadata are exported in a **xlsx** folder which contains information in a format ready to be uploaded via the openBIS admin UI.

- **Export metadata as PDF**. Metadata are exported in a **pdf** folder that keeps the folder structure of the ELN. At each level, one pdf file for each exported entity is generated.

- **Export metadata as XLSX**. Metadata are exported in one **xlsx** folder. The folder contains the metadata of all exported entities and the corresponding masterdata in a **metadata.xlsx** file. If **Make import compatible** is selected, this file is suitable for re-import in openBIS. If not, the file contains some fields which are not compatible with re-imports. These fields are: PermId of entities, registrator, registration date, modifier, modification date. In addition to the metadata.xlsx file, the **xlsx** folder might contain a **scripts** folder, which contains scripts associated with types in the metadata.xlsx file, if these are present, and a **data** folder which holds the content of spreadsheet fields and large text fields that exceed the size of an Excel cell.

- **Export data**. The default maximum size of all datasets to be exported is 10GB. This can be configured by a system admin in the [AS service.properties file](../../system-documentation/configuration/optional-application-server-configuration.md). We recommend to use [sftp](../general-users/lab-notebook.md#data-access) to download large datasets. 
If **Make import compatible** is selected, datasets are exported in a **data** folder in a format ready to be uploaded in openBIS using the default eln-lims dropbox. If not, the datasets are exported in a **pdf** folder that matches the ELN hierarchy.

- **Include levels below from same space**. If selected, all hierachy levels below the selected entity and belonging to the same Space are exported.

- **Include Object and Dataset parents from same space**. If selected, Object parents and Dataset parents from the same Space are exported. Example: I export Object A, in Experiment A, in Space 1. Object B in Experiment B also in Space 1 is parent of Object A. When this option is selected, Object B is also exported, otherwise it is not.

- **Include Objects and Datasets parents and children from different spaces**. This allows to export Object and Dataset parents and children that belong to a different Space than the Space from where Objects and Datasets are being exported. Example: I export Object A in Space 1, which has parents in Space 2. If this option is selected, the parents in Space 2 are also exported, otherwise they are not.

- **Wait for download to complete in browser**. This is suitable when exporting only metadata or small datasets. When the dowload is ready, a zip file will be available to download from the browser.

_Note: ensure that pop-ups are not disabled in your browser_.
- **Receive results by email**. If this option is selected, when the export is ready, you will receive an email notification with a download link.  Email notification needs to be configured on *system level* during or after installation, as explained in [Configure Data Store
Server](../../system-documentation/configuration/optional-datastore-server-configuration.md)


> **Known limitation of openBIS 20.10.8**: images embedded in text fields are not currently exported. This limitation will be fixed in the upcoming 20.10.8.1 release. 


We provide below a couple of examples of the export, to clarify how it works.

### **1. Import-compatible export of a Space selecting all options**

We select all options from the export widget, as shown below.

 ![image info](img/space-export-all-options-import-compatible.png)

We export a Space called CATERINA in the Lab Notebook with all its sublevels (see below). 

![image info](img/export_example-lab-notebook.png)

One Object in this Space has a parent in a Space called METHODS (see below). 

![image info](img/export_example-inventory.png)

The exported zip file contains 3 folders:

**A.** **data** folder

This contains the datasets in the correct format to be uploaded via eln-lims dropbox, as shown below.


![image info](img/IC-data-folder-1.png)

![image info](img/IC-data-folder-2.png)

**B.** **pdf** folder

This contains folders that match the openBIS hierarchy (Space/Project/Experiment/Object).

In this case 2 Space folders are present:

1. **CATERINA**: is the exported space.
2. **METHODS**: contains an Object which is parent of an Object in the space CATERINA. This was exported because the option **Include Objects and Datasets parents and children from different spaces** was selected for export.

![image info](img/IC-pdf-folder-1.png)

![image info](img/IC-pdf-folder-2.png)


Inside each folder, there is a pdf of the corresponding entity. Example: 

- in the Space folder **CATERINA** there is a **CATERINA.pdf** file that contains the metadata of the Space;
- in the Project folder **PROJECT_1** there is a **PROJECT_1.pdf** file that contains the metadata of the Project;
- in the Experiment folder **My second experiment (PROJECT_1_EXP_1)** there is a **My second experiment (PROJECT_1_EXP_1).pdf** file with the metadata of the Experiment;
- in the Object folder **Step A (EXP4)**  there is a **Step A(EXP4).pdf** file with the metadata of the Object and a **20240523100301019-55.pdf** file that contains the metadata of the dataset that belongs to this Object.


**C.** **xlsx** folder. 

This contains:

- a **metadata.xlsx** file which has the metadata of the exported entities and the corresponding masterdata (types and properties) in the correct format to be re-imported in another openBIS instance;
- a **scripts** folder that contains evaluation plugins associated to two types defined in the metadata.xlsx file;
- a **data** folder that contains the information stored in the spreadsheet field of one of the Objects in this Space.

![image info](img/IC-xlsx-folder-data.png)

![image info](img/IC-xlsx-folder-scripts.png)



### **2. Non import-compatible export of a Space selecting all options**

We export the same Space as described in Example 1, with all options selected, but the export this time is not import-compatible, as shown below.

 ![image info](img/space-export-all-options-non-import-compatible.png)

 
In this case the exported zip file contains only 2 folders: **pdf** and **xlsx**. Data are exported inside the pdf folder, instead of being in a separate **data** folder.

**A.** **pdf** folder

This contains the same folder structure as described above. In addition, in this case, inside the Object **Step A (EXP4)** folder there is a **data** folder that contains the dataset belonging to this Object, as shown below. The metadata of the dataset is provided as a metadata.json file inside the data folder and as pdf file inside the Object folder (**Step A (EXP4)**).


![image info](img/NIC-pdf-folder.png)

**B.** **xlsx** folder 

This contains the same files and folders as described in Example 1 (see below). The only difference in this case is that the metadata.xlsx is not import-compatible. It contains some fields which are not compatible with openBIS re-import, as explained above.

![image info](img/NIC-xlsx-folder-data.png)

![image info](img/NIC-xlsx-folder-scripts.png)

 
## Export to Zenodo



  
openBIS provides an integration with the **Zenodo** data
repository ([https://zenodo.org/).](https://zenodo.org/)

  
This enables data direct data transfer from openBIS to Zenodo. First of
all the connection to Zenodo needs to be configured on *system level*
in the DSS service.properties (see [How to configure the openBIS
DSS)](../../system-documentation/standalone/optional-datastore-server-configuration.md)
If this is configured, a lab manager, who has admin rights for the
**Settings,** needs to enable it in the ELN, as explained in [Enable
Transfer to Data
Repositories](../general-admin-users/admins-documentation/enable-transfer-to-data-repositories.md)**.**

###  Create Zenodo Personal Access Token

  
In order to be able to export data to Zenodo, you need a valid Zenodo
account. You also need to create a **personal access token.** This can
be done from the **Applications** under **Settings** in Zenodo, as shown
below:

![image info](img/generate-zenodo-token-1024x498.png)

### Save Zenodo Personal Access Token in openBIS

  
After creating the personal access token in Zenodo, this needs to be
stored in openBIS, with the following procedure:

1.  Go to **User Profile** under **Utilities** in the main menu.
2.  Enable editing.
3.  Add the personal access token from Zenodo.
4.  **Save.**

 

![image info](img/user-profile-session-token.png)


### Export data to Zenodo

  
To export data to Zenodo:

1.  Go to **Exports** -> **Export to Zenodo** under **Utilities** in
    the main menu.
2.  Select the data you want to export from the menu.
3.  Enter a **Submission** **Title.**
4.  Click **Export Selected** on top of the export form.
5.  The selected data are transferred as a zip file to Zenodo. You are
    now redirected to Zenodo, where you should fill in additional
    metadata information.
6.  Publish the entry in Zenodo.

 

![image info](img/export-to-zenodo-1024x862.png)

 
The data exported to Zenodo is a .zip file that contains the metadata of the exported entries in 4 formats (.txt, .html, .doc, .json) and the data. The hiearchy (i.e.folder structure) used in the ELN is preserved in the exported .zip file.
 

After you hit the **Publish** button in Zenodo, a new entry with the
details of this submission will be created in the **Publications**
folder in the **Inventory**. Please note that this may take a few
minutes.

 

![image info](img/publications-collection.png)


## Export data to Zenodo in a multi-group instance

If you export data from a multi-group instance where you have access to more than one group, you need to select the group under which the new publication entry should be created. 

In the example below we see 3 group names: GENERAL, DEMO, TEST.

![image info](img/export-to-zenodo-multigroup.png)

If you select GENERAL, the publication entry will be created under the PUBLICATION Space (if present).

If you select DEMO, the publication entry will be created under the DEMO_PUBLICATION Space. 

If you select TEST, the publication entry will be created under the TEST_PUBLICATION Space. 



 
## Export to ETH Research Collection



 

The [ETH Research Collection](https://www.research-collection.ethz.ch/)
is a FAIR repository for publications and research data provided by ETH
Zurich to its scientists.

 

Data can be uploaded to the ETH Research Collection **only by members of
ETH Zurich**. This export feature is only available to ETHZ members.

 

To export data to the ETH Research Collection:

![image info](img/export-to-research-collection-1024x818.png)

1.  Go to **Utilities** -> **Exports** -> **Export to Research
    Collection**.
2.  Select what to export from the tree.
3.  Select the **Submission Type** from the available list: *Data
    collection, Dataset, Image, Model, Sound, Video, Other Research
    Data*.
4.  Select the **Retention Period** that will be used in the ETH
    Research Collection: *10 years, 15 years, indefinite.* This is time
    for which the data will be preserved in the Research Collection.
5.  Click the **Export Selected** button on top of the page.
6.  The selected data are transferred as zip file to the ETH Research
    Collection. You will be redirected to the ETH Research Collection
    and will need to complete the submission process there.

 

![image info](img/publications-collection.png)


The data exported to the Research Collection is a .zip file that contains the metadata of the exported entries in 4 formats (.txt, .html, .doc, .json) and the data. The hiearchy (i.e.folder structure) used in the ELN is preserved in the exported .zip file.

A new entry with the details of this submission will be created in the
**Publications** folder in the **Inventory** after the submission
process in complete. This may take a few minutes.

 

The size limit for one single export to the ETH Research Collection is
10GB.

## Export data to the ETH Research Collection in a multi-group instance
 
If you export data from a multi-group instance where you have access to more than one group, you need to select the group under which the new publication entry should be created. See explanation in section **Export data to Zenodo in a multi-group instance** above.
